Documentation for Multiplayer Desync Audit Trail (#1451)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/multiplayer/multiplayer-debug/debug/desync-audit-trail.md

---
title: Multiplayer Desync Audit Trail
description: Analyze and Debug Multiplayer Desyncs
linkTitle: Desync Audit Trail
---

> When the Client and Server disagree on the value of a networked variable, a desync occurs. Desyncs can be extremely difficult to debug which is where the Multiplayer Desync Audit Trail can help.

Reviewer: This is the tooling you'd use after noticing desync log messages right? Might be worth mentioning _how_ someone can find out the simulation is desyncing.

The Multiplayer Desync Audit Trail is a tool available with the Multiplayer Gem in Debug environments. It details all network desyncs that occur and categorizes network activity leading up to a desync to attempt to root cause the desync itself.

![Audit Trail Overlay](/images/user-guide/gems/reference/multiplayer/audit_trail_default.png)

> The Audit Trail will capture a desync and the Input ID and Host Frame it occurred on. For each desync, it will list under it all captured activity leading up to the desync up to a CVAR defined limit.

Reviewer 2: ".. will capture a desync, the Input Id and Host Frame it occurred on. For every desync, the UI will list all the captured activity leading to the descync. The depth of this history can be controlled by a CVar." or similar.

## Configuration
Various CVARs can be modified to enable additional data capture. Enabling additional capture both adds a performance cost and density to the Audit Trail. If you require capturing a longer event history, consider raising *net_DebutAuditTrail_HistorySize*.

| Property | Description | Type |
|---|---|---|---|
| cl_EnableDesyncDebugging | If true, enables output of Desyncs to standard logs AND Audit Trail capture. | `bool` |

> | cl_DesyncDebugging_AuditInputs | If true, adds Inputs to audit trail. | `bool` |

Reviewer: capitalize Audit Trail to match rest of doc? although docs might say those all need to be lowercase.

| net_DebutAuditTrail_HistorySize | Maximum number of events the Audit Trail will aggregate. Raising this value is recommended if Input or Event Auditing is enabled to compensate for increased Event volume. | `int` |

## Auditing Categories
### Desync

> Desyncs are the primary event captured by the Audit Trail. Consequently the Audit Trail organizes all activity around Desyncs. On the client, desyncs generally include a delta map of variables and the values the client and server disagreed on

Reviewer: end with .
I think "desyncs" should all be lowercase

> Desyncs are the primary event captured by the Audit Trail. Consequently the Audit Trail organizes all activity around Desyncs. On the client, desyncs generally include a delta map of variables the client and server disagreed on which led to the desync and their values for each endpoint. On the server, detailed data around client values is not available so the occurrence and timing of the desync are captured. 

Reviewer 2: Feels like this could be shortened to "On the client, desyncs generally include a delta map of variables and the values the client and server disagreed on."

### Input

> Network inputs detail actions that create deltas in the networked state of the simulation. The audit trail lists all network inputs that were sent. In addition it also lists non default values for each member per network input. This allows the correlation of inputs to desynchronized data. This can help clarify what actions may have led to a desync.

Reviewer: (one word) nondefault

> Network inputs detail actions that create delta in the networked state of the simulation. The audit trail lists all network inputs that were sent. In addition it also lists non default values for each member per network input. This allows the correlation of inputs to desynchronized data. This can help clarify what actions may have led to a desync.

Reviewer 2: "Network inputs detail actions that create *deltas* in the networked state of the simulation."

![Audit Trail Inputs](/images/user-guide/gems/reference/multiplayer/audit_trail_input.png)

> Here we can see Inputs that occurred on the Player entity relative to the desync including those that are processed locally. For the Host Frames in question, the actions were exclusively the Player moving via NetworkPlayerMovementComponent.

Reviewer 2: Maybe "The above screenshot shows Inputs that occurred..."?

### Custom Event

Custom Events are custom auditing events the developer can specify via macros.

> * AZ_MPAUDIT_INPUT_REWINDABLE

Reviewer 2: Consider hosting as table, as with CVar examples above

| Property | Description |
|---|---|---|

> | AZ_MPAUDIT_INPUT_REWINDABLE | Allows the developer to audit a RewindableObject's current local value in comparison to its last known server value |

Reviewer 3: Could we have an example usage of these in the code? Just a few line would work.

* AZ_MPAUDIT_VALUE
    * Allows the developer to audit a non-networked value without any timing data (such as Input ID and Host Frame ID)

> Custom Events allow the developer to specify additional information they'd like to track. In order to use these macros, including "MultiplayerDebug.h" is required. The parameters the macros require are

Reviewer 2: "The parameters the macros require are*:*"

* The variable in question
* The variable's underlying type

>     * For a RewindableObject<T>, T

Reviewer: nice callout using T for RewindableObject<T> :)

> ### Custom Event
> 
> Custom Events are custom auditing events the developer can specify via macros.
> 
> | Property | Description |
> |---|---|---|
> | AZ_MPAUDIT_INPUT_REWINDABLE | Allows the developer to audit a RewindableObject's current local value in comparison to its last known server value |
> | AZ_MPAUDIT_INPUT_VALUE | Allows the developer to audit a non-networked value using the timing data of an input |
> | AZ_MPAUDIT_VALUE | Allows the developer to audit a non-networked value without any timing data (such as Input ID and Host Frame ID) |
> 
> Custom Events allow the developer to specify additional information they'd like to track. In order to use these macros, including "MultiplayerDebug.h" is required. The parameters the macros require are:
> * The variable in question
> * The variable's underlying type
>     * For a RewindableObject<T>, T
>     * For a variable of type T, T
> * A NetworkInput for commands starting with AZ_MPAUDIT_INPUT
>     * This allows the binding of the macro usage to a specific HostFrame and Input ID for chronological categorization
> 
> ![Audit Trail Custom Events](/images/user-guide/gems/reference/multiplayer/audit_trail_event.png)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Capturing custom events

Custom events are custom auditing events the developer can specify via macros in their C++ source.

| Property | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `AZ_MPAUDIT_INPUT_REWINDABLE` | Allows the developer to audit a `RewindableObject` object's current local value in comparison to its last known server value. |
| `AZ_MPAUDIT_INPUT_VALUE` | Allows the developer to audit a non-networked value using the timing data of an input. Timing data includes input ID and host frame. |
| `AZ_MPAUDIT_VALUE` | Allows the developer to audit a non-networked value without any timing data. |

Custom events allow the developer to specify additional information they'd like to track. In order to use these macros, including 1MultiplayerDebug.h1 is required. The parameters the macros require are:

* The variable in question
* The variable's underlying type. This should always be `T`, even for `RewindableObject<T>` values being captured.
* A `NetworkInput` for commands starting with `AZ_MPAUDIT_INPUT`. This binds the macro usage to a specific host frame and input ID, giving the ability to categorize by event time.

![Audit Trail Custom Events](/images/user-guide/gems/reference/multiplayer/audit_trail_event.png)
```
